# Stance-EC

Social networks have gained significance as one of the most important channels that allow people to share their thoughts and opinions on various topics. Among these, Twitter is the primary medium for debates on different topics, including socio-political aspects. There is a growing research interest in detecting stances in these contexts. However, the large amount of information and the lack of reliable data sets makes it challenging to accurately recognize social network users' feelings and emotions. Furthermore, the number of data sets in English for stance detection is large, but to our knowledge, they are limited in Spanish. In this paper, we present a new data set in Spanish for stance detection on the 2022 protests in Ecuador. This event was significant national and international relevance since the country experienced several days of chaos. It was also the subject of extensive discussion on Twitter between the different sides supporting and opposing the protests. The tweets were downloaded through the Twitter API, obtaining 263,457 tweets, after removing duplicates. A random sample of 25,454 tweets was selected and manually annotated by five people. Both the annotated and non-annotated data sets are publicly available. The results showed that our data set is rich in important information from Twitter discussions about the event. Also, machine learning classifiers were trained and evaluated on the annotated data set. The classifiers showed good overall performance in training and validation, and no overfitting was observed, demonstrating that the data set is reliable and valuable for future research.
